Update readiness probe docs to match observed behaviour (#49476)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle.md

{{< note >}}
If you want to be able to drain requests when the Pod is deleted, you do not

> necessarily need a readiness probe; when the POD is deleted, the corresponding endpoint

Reviewer: nit: Pod (not POD)

Author: Will fix

will have its `ready` status as `false`, so load balancers will not use it for regular
traffic. The endpoint remains in the unready state while it waits for the containers

> in the Pod to stop.

Reviewer: Maybe we should talk about [`serving`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#serving) and [`ready`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#ready) - or hyperlink to the relevant existing docs?

Author: I'll try to add details about endpoint conditions.

{{< note >}}
If you want to be able to drain requests when the Pod is deleted, you do not
necessarily need a readiness probe; when the Pod is deleted, the corresponding endpoint

> will update its [conditions](../../services-networking/endpoint-slices.md#conditions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will update its [conditions](/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#conditions).
```
See https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/new-content/open-a-pr/#preview-locally for how to preview your changes locally.

Author: Thank you!

> in the `EndppointSlice` will update its [conditions](/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#conditions):

Reviewer 2: We prefer the active voice, but for a one-line tweak, this would be an improvement:
```suggestion
in the EndpointSlice is updated with [conditions](/docs/concepts/services-networking/endpoint-slices/#conditions):
```

Namely, the `ready` condition will be set to `false`, so load balancers
will not use the Pod for regular traffic. The `serving` condition will reflect

> the Pod's ready status.

Reviewer 3: "ready" or "Ready"? "serving" or "Serving"?

Author: Done!

Reviewer 3: Here are several confusions.

- The 'type: Ready' condition on a Pod is designed to indicate that the Pod can accept traffics. But, Kubernetes doesn't now the internal logic of a Pod. Only the Pod itself can tell whether it is "ready" to serve business. That is the reason we have "readiness" probe. A Pod has to speak for itself. However, this is not the end of the story. The implementation of the readiness probe becomes critical. Due to poor implementation of readiness probes, some Pods would "lie". The container in a Pod is okay, but it need to respond to a request based on the content it received from a DB cache layer, and ... that DB cache layer is down. The container cannot be treated as "ready" in this case. So, you see the complexity of the probing logic.
- Pod and Endpoints are different things. (Note, there is no `Endpoint` resource, there is only `Endpoints` resource). A Pod has its conditions, and an Endpoints has its conditions. If we find something is wrong in the `Endpoints` abstraction, we don't fix the Pod page. Does this make senses?

Reviewer 3: I still hope we can make the text less confusing.
When we are talking about Pod, we focus on the Pod. When we are talking about something else, `Endpoints` or `EndpointSlice`, we make it clear as well.

The existing text is not crystal clear, especially when it says "the Pod put itself into unready state". There is no "unready" state for a Pod. There is only a "Ready" condition that can be set to True/False/Unknown. The Pod can do its best to help kubelet decide whether it is ready to accept traffic. The "Ready" condition is used to determine whether it will get involved into Service traffic load-balancing, but the condition is set by kubelet.

Author: I agree that "pod in unready state" is confusing and doesn't have a definition, and that's why I want to get rid of it in the text. What actually happens is that while  pod without readiness probe is Terminating, its `Ready` conditions stays `True`, but `ready` condition of the corresponding endpoint in `EndpointSlice` now is `false` -- and this is what I want to reflect in the docs. Does that make sense?

Reviewer 3: If you want to clarify the status change of the EndpointSlice, do that in the EndpointSlice page. Not all Pods are associated with an endpoint.

Reviewer: On the other hand, if a Pod is not associated with a Service, readiness probes don't have much meaning.
(have I got that right)?

Author: @tengqm I want to clarify behaviour of `Pod` specifically, namely that a Pod without readiness probes doesn't change its `Ready` condition on deletion. The Pod is shown as `Terminating` by `kubectl`, but its `Ready` condition is still `True`

Author: I updated the text to put more focus on Pods

necessarily need a readiness probe; on deletion, the Pod automatically puts itself
into an unready state regardless of whether the readiness probe exists.
The Pod remains in the unready state while it waits for the containers in the Pod
to stop. The`Ready` condition in the Pod status remains true, and `.status.phase`

> remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.

Reviewer 4: I tried it and the new sentence is false.

The pod was still in a ready state. To re-simulate it, run the below.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test
    image: nginx
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
    readinessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /
        port: 80
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
      periodSeconds: 5
    lifecycle:
      preStop:
        exec:
          command: ["sh", "-c", "sleep 20"] 
```

Result at around 18-20 seconds
```bash
kubectl describe pod test 
...
Status:           Running
...
Conditions:
  Type                        Status
  PodReadyToStartContainers   False < 
  Initialized                 True 
  Ready                       False <
  ContainersReady             False <
  PodScheduled                True 
```

--- 

An unready state occurs when a readiness probe fails, but the container is running. For example, if you use a path that doesn't exist in an HTTP Get probe, the pod will be in an unready state.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test
    image: nginx
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
    readinessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /doesnotexist
        port: 80
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
      periodSeconds: 5
```

```bash
kubectl describe pod test 
...
Status:           Running
...
Conditions:
  Type                        Status
  PodReadyToStartContainers   True 
  Initialized                 True 
  Ready                       False <
  ContainersReady             False <
  PodScheduled                True 
```

> remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.

Author: Let me reword. `Ready` condition doesn't turn unconditionally `"True"`, but it doesn't turn unconditionally `"False"` either

> remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.

Author: @sftim

> What is an unready state if not having condition Ready set true?

This is a good question. Based on "on deletion, the Pod automatically puts itself into an unready state regardless of whether the readiness probe exists" I assumed that `Ready` condition will turn to `"False"` when I delete the pod, but this is not the case. As discussed in in [Termination of Pods](https://deploy-preview-49476--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-termination), terminating pods don't receive traffic from LBs. I have an assumption that "pod is ready" <=> "pod accepts traffic", but it looks like this is not actually true. Should we remove the note altogether?

> remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.

Reviewer: I don't have enough context to answer this without doing more analysis. What do you recommend?

> remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.

Author: I'd rather keep the note (after rewording it), I believe it adds value.

> to stop. Note that`Ready` condition in the Pod status is still `"True"`
> and `.status.phase` is `"Running"` while the Pod is terminating.

Reviewer: I'd avoid putting “note that“ inside a node callout.
Try:
```suggestion
to stop. The`Ready` condition in the Pod status remains true, and `.status.phase`
remains Running, until the Pod is fully terminated.
```

Which of these do you think is true @NovemberZulu:
- during Pod termination, the kubelet omits readiness probing, even when readiness probes are defined
- during Pod termination, the kubelet continues readiness probing when readiness probes are defined, but ignores the result and always marks the Pod as ready 
- during Pod termination, the kubelet continues readiness probing when readiness probes are defined, but ignores the result and retains the Ready condition value that was in effect before termination began
- during Pod termination, the kubelet continues readiness probing when readiness probes are defined, but ignores the result and retains the Ready condition value that was in effect before termination began
- during Pod termination, the value Ready condition depends on whether the Pod uses Pod readiness+ and other factors not mentioned in the current docs
- none of the above are correct

?

Author: Updated the PR, thank you for the suggestion!

Based on my current understanding of the code, I _think_ the behaviour is:

- during Pod termination, the kubelet continues readiness probing when readiness probes are defined and marks Pod as either ready or not ready depending on the result, i.e. none of the above
